last year volkswagen reintroduced a
completely new Jetta it's larger it's
cheaper but it's completely different
and that really alienated some of the
traditional VW fans hi I'm Joel high
gear media and this our 2 minute review
of the 2012 Jetta GLI
so up front you'll notice the GLI looks
a lot like the Jetta it has a
distinctive honeycomb grille it has a
front line spoiler and fog lights there
straight off a GTI it's a little more
aggressive but it's still kind of bland
and not really pushing the boundaries
we'd say under the hood you'll find a
2-liter turbo four-cylinder of course
powering the front wheels 200 horsepower
207 pound-feet of torque now you do have
an option 6-speed dual-clutch DSG
transmission phenomenal transmission or
6-speed male transmission of course
power steering is electric and I want to
take a moment tell you our editors feel
that the power steering this car set the
benchmark it might be the best electric
power steering on the market might be
it's definitely terrific lot of road
feel phenomenal now as I mentioned power
is going to the front wheels and to make
sure that 207 pound-feet of torque isn't
spinning the wheels we have XDS it's an
electronic simulated locking
differential now that uses the brakes
and electronics to kind of lower power
and distribu to make sure you're not
gonna spin your wheels now down the side
you'll notice strong character line goes
down through the doors and we have
17-inch alloy wheels red painted brake
calipers for the GLI model only you
won't find that in TDI or the base model
and you have four disc brakes all around
in the GLI model now all models of
Jettas do not have that that's one of
the cost-cutting measures to get the
lower price down below $16,000 now
around back the bland styling kind of
continues even those two GLI we do have
distinctive taillights at night with
some little lighting elements that go
into play the GLI model does have a rear
diffuser simulated and of course dual
exhaust also it's a very large trunk for
this class very large now inside the
Jetta GLI and overall the Jetta the
design is very simple as it always has
been but unfortunately in most jetted
models the materials aren't quite up to
snuff now this is the GLI model it has a
soft touch - put in most Jetta models
the very hard deck that's very sad
because the materials have gone down
quality and effort to bring the price
down but people are coming from a Toyota
Carolla are gonna feel this is a German
engineering car and it's very solid
anything like that
navigation is available of course
satellite navigation satellite radio all
that overall it's a large cabinets and
place to spend your time but material
they're not the MIDI data quality that
we expect so what's the bottom line with
the 2012 Volkswagen Jetta GLI well it's
pretty simple for our money the only
model jet of the buy or the TDI and the
GLI terrific gas mileage fun to drive
kinda what the jet it should be other
than that they're kind of bland and it's
not a trick value especially when you
look at the competition
I'm Joel Hager media and this is our
two-minute view of 2012 Volkswagen Jetta
GLI
you